WSU Smart Apartment ADL Multi-Resident Testbed

Description

These datasets represent sensor events collected in the WSU smart apartment
testbed.  The data represents two participants in the apartment at the same
time performing fifteen ADL activities in the apartment.  The tasks are:

    1:  Fill medication dispenser in the kitchen using items obtained from
        the cabinet.  Return items to the cabinet when done. (Person A)

    2:  Hang up clothes in the hallway closet.  The clothes are laid out on the
        couch in the living room. (Person B)

    3:  Move the couch and coffee table to the other side of the living room.
        (Person B)
        Request help from Person A (Person A will stop dispenser task to
        help and finish dispenser task when done with this task)

    4:  Sit on the couch and read a magazine. (Person B)

    5:  Water plants located around the apartment.  Use the watering can located
        in the hallway closet. Return the watering can to the closet when
        finished. (Person A)

    6:  Sweep the kitchen floor using the broom and dust pan located
        in the kitchen closet. Return the tools to the closet when
        finished. (Person B)

    7:  Play a game of checkers for a maximum of five minutes. (Persons A and B)

    8:  Set out ingredients for dinner in the kitchen. (Person A)

    9:  Set dining room table for dinner. (Person B)

   10:  Read a magazine on the living room couch. (Person A)

   11:  Simulate paying an electric bill.  Retrieve a check, a pen, and
        an envelope from the cupboard underneath the television in the
	living room.  Use the telephone book in the dining room to look
	up a number for a utility company to confirm the amount on the bill.
	(Person B)  Request help from Person A to find number for utility
	company (Person A will stop current task to help and finish task
	when done helping)

   12:  Gather food for a picnic from the kitchen cupboard and pack them
        in a picnic basket. (Person A)

   13:  Retrieve dishes from a kitchen cabinet.
        (Person B)  Request help from Person A to identify
	cabinet in which the dishes are located. (Person A will stop current
	task to help and finish task when done helping)

   14:  Pack supplies in the picnic basket. (Person B)

   15:  Pack food in the picnic basket and bring the basket to the
	front door of the apartment. (Person A)

File format

The files are named according to the participant pair number and contain
sensor events for all of the tasks.  There is one sensor event on each
line of the files.  The event syntax is
   Date Time SensorID Value ResidentID TaskID
The Date, Time, SensorID, and Value fields are generated automatically
by the smart apartment.  The ResidentID and TaskID are annotations that
were generated based on manual inspection to provide the most likely
resident that triggered the sensor event and the most likely task that
was being performed.  In some cases the residents were performed a task
together in the same space.  In this case the sensor event is labeled with
two pairs of (ResidentID, TaskID) values corresponding to the two possible
tasks with which the event is associated.

Sensor layouts

The sensor layout of the apartment is shown in
the files Chinook_3_Bedroom_TH.png and Chinook_Cabinet.png.
The sensors can be categorized by:

   M01..M51:  motion sensors
   I01..I08:  item sensors
   D01..D12:  cabinet sensor
   AD1-A:     water sensor
   AD1-B:     water sensor
   AD1-C:     burner sensor
   P01:       phone sensor (start/top is start/stop of phone call)
   T01..T03:  temperature sensors

Data files

P01.txt P02.txt P03.txt P04.txt P05.txt P06.txt P07.txt P08.txt P09.txt P10.txt
P11.txt P12.txt P13.txt P14.txt P15.txt P16.txt P17.txt P18.txt P19.txt P20.txt
P21.txt P22.txt P23.txt P24.txt P25.txt P26.txt

Papers

All use of the data must cite the WSU smart home project.  More information
about this data collection can be found in the paper cited below.

G. Singla, D. Cook, and M. Schmitter-Edgecombe, Recognizing independent and
joint activities among multiple residents in smart environments.
Ambient Intelligence and Humanized Computing Journal, 2009.
